Hey guys.
Hello.
Howdy.
Hello, hello, hello, YouTube.
Thank you all who are here live or coming back to watch the live recording.
Of course, thanks for watching.
And with that, let's just go ahead and kick it off.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes where we deliver Python news and headlines directly
to your earbuds.
This is episode 322 recorded February 7th, 2023.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
And I'm Brian O'Connor.
And we're here to talk about Python Bytes.
where we deliver Python news and headlines
directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 322, recorded February 7th, 2023.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
- And I'm Brian Okken.
- And I'm Calvin Hendricks-Parker.
- Welcome Calvin, awesome to have you here.
- I'm excited to be back.
I love it's kind of my annual retreat.
- That's right, that's right.
Your annual drop in to share all your ideas with us.
It's fantastic.
You got some good ones to talk about, I know.
Also want to say thank you to Microsoft
for Startups Founders Hub for sponsoring this episode.
If you all want to connect with any of us,
me, Brian, Calvin, or even just the show,
you can find us over on Fosstodon.
We're all over there actually on Mastodon.
So you can find links and show notes.
And if you're listening, but not watching,
just go to pythonbytes.fm/stream/live
where we will be streaming live every Tuesday, usually,
but you can definitely subscribe to get notified there.
Calvin, I know you've been here before, multiple times.
You always come to put us to shame with your fancy camera
that you got going, we love it.
Tell people who maybe haven't heard about you
or met you before who you are.
- Sure, so I'm Calvin X. Parker.
I'm co-founder and CTO of Six Feet Up.
We are a software development company
that helps digital leaders transform their impact.
We do a lot of interesting work now
around impactful projects.
So it's like climate change,
making the world a better place.
In addition, I've started a couple of communities.
So the IndiePi community here local in Indianapolis,
and then we kind of branched out from that
into some little local conferences
into now Python Web Conference.
So that's probably the big thing you'll hear from me
at least this month and next month.
- Yeah, we'll talk about that at the end of the show,
but that's an amazing conference.
You have, I would say, potentially more talks
or on par as many talks as US PyCon.
It's really a lot going on there.
Last year, there were almost too many.
Like it was so good, I just kept saying yes to everybody.
This year, we pulled back a little bit.
We had more submissions.
We'll talk about this later, but it was really hard to choose.
- Yeah, it's tough to say no to deserving people.
- It's so much fun.
So many great people.
- Indeed.
All right, Brian, kick us off.
- I just wanted to talk about packaging today a little bit.
I've got, I'm splitting it up into two segments,
but I really wanna focus on,
right now on the PyPA has a packaging
Python projects tutorial page.
It's linked in the show notes, of course,
but I think this is a good,
it's really pretty good, well-written.
And so I want to point people in this direction.
If you want to share your Python code
with somebody else, packaging it is the right way to go,
I think.
And this tutorial walks through,
it's not necessarily trivial to do it.
So, and it, I wish it was easier,
but it's not bad.
So it walks through what you,
walks through setting up your directory structure.
It's, and then you have to have some package files with it.
You've got to have a license file
and a pyproject.toml now, and a readme.
And then it talks about your source directory
and your test directory.
So you've got the directory set up.
- Right, I know you're a fan
of the source directory for packages.
It looks like--
- Yeah, IPA is--
- Exactly, your philosophy is winning out here
is the official recommendation.
- Yeah, and I mostly, I used to have good reasons behind it.
Now I just like having the top level stuff just be packaging
and having the actual source code be somewhere else
in the source directory.
While you're developing, it's nicer.
If you have a single, there is like caveats though.
If you have a single file that you're just sharing,
that might seem like overkill.
And I'm fine with, of course, I have packages as well
that are single file that I don't do this with.
So you don't have to, but most projects
are gonna have more than one file if you're sharing it.
So there's this, and then what do you put in it?
So it talks about what you put in the different things
in the pyproject.toml and a little bit into the readme
and some of the metadata.
One of the things we're gonna jump into a little bit later
in the show is that there are lots of options
for what build backend you use.
This project itself or this document
talks about hatchling, setup tools, flit and PDM.
And neither of them look that different
and they kind of do the same thing,
but you can have different metadata that goes with it.
So that's, I think both a good thing that we have options
and a bad thing that some people don't know how to choose.
So--
>> Is it really tough to know why should you do it?
Maybe set up tools probably shouldn't be the choice.
I feel like that--
>> Yeah, I don't know.
>> --moving a little bit away from that.
>> The history here is so deep.
Like, I feel like there's a whole day, a whole college
course you could give on why these things are
the way they are now.
>> Yeah.
Yeah, so the project, the tutorial
goes down into even distributing.
So all the way down to recommending that you use Twine
to upload to the test repository, test pipe here.
And you have to get a token and it's not trivial
and all this sort of stuff.
So it's still a little daunting,
but this will walk you through all the steps.
I have a personal opinion, of course,
and my opinion is read this and then check out Flit.
Because for simple projects, Flit is, I think,
still the easiest.
It replaces the build step with Flit Build.
And it replaces the creation of some of these files
with Flit Init.
And it replaces the Twine upload with just Flit Publish.
And I use it on a few projects.
And I haven't had reason to switch yet.
It's not perfect, but it's pretty easy for small projects.
So I would say read both of these
if you want to share some Python code.
- Excellent. Yeah.
Very good recommendation.
And I think people need guidance here
because there are so many choices.
There's going to be a lot of conversation
in the Python space around this actually.
- For sure.
- Yep.
- All right.
Let's move on though for right now.
- Indeed.
So just real time follow up here.
As of about 30 minutes ago,
Ophek, the creator of Hatch
and I'm gonna have a conversation March 1st on Talk Python.
So if people wanna hear more about Hatch,
that's coming up in about three weeks or so.
But what do I wanna talk about?
Something fun.
Last time we had the Unrapple,
this time we have the Untangle.
So Untangle by stchris on GitHub
converts XML to dynamic Python objects.
So thankfully, we've largely moved past XML.
And really thankfully,
we've largely moved past XML namespaces,
'cause that just is a complication
that never needed to exist.
But there's still plenty of XML stuff out there
that people have to work with.
So here's a cool little library that people can use.
So we already have XML support in Python
through the element tree API, which is, it's pretty nice.
it works well, you give it a XML document,
but then you do, you sort of navigate it
through like child parent or dot attribute.
There's like some,
it's not the totally the cleanest, most straightforward API.
So with this untangle thing,
you can treat it like a Python object
that just dynamically adopts the nodes
as fields of those objects as a hierarchy, right?
So super simple, you just get it to parse either a URL,
a file or from a string, just an XML string.
There's an example that it's just real simple.
It has a root and it has a child node.
And on the child node, it has an attribute
where it says name equals child one, okay?
So if you were to load that up with this untangle thing,
you just, whatever you get back, you say dot root
because that's the first element.
If you wanted to say, for example, that name attribute,
say dot root, 'cause that's the name of the root,
is whatever the first element.
Then the next element is dot child.
And then to get the attribute,
you just treat it like a dictionary and say bracket name
and outcomes, outcomes at value.
So that seems really, really clean and nice.
- It does look clean,
other than the fact you're still dealing with XML.
- Yeah, well.
(both laughing)
- I was just dealing with XML this morning, yuck.
- Yeah, absolutely.
So I suppose there's an API for enumerating things
where you have multiple ones, right?
You could have child, child, child, child with name one,
child with name two, right?
As a list of things in this XML.
So it's, there's probably, you know, maybe if
there's multiple ones, I don't know,
maybe it's a list or something I have to look,
actually realize I didn't totally look into that, but.
It's a pretty cool library if people are doing things like that.
They can definitely check it out.
Here we go. Maybe.
>> I think I will try this out because I have used the elementary,
and it does the job,
but I always thought maybe it could be easier.
>> What's the speed like?
Do you know anything on if it's fast, slow?
>> Honestly, I would imagine what it's doing is it's probably using
an element tree.
- Yeah.
- And just like a thin wrapper over top of it.
But I don't, I don't know, let's see.
Oh, it's using defused XML, SACS, okay.
I have no, I don't know anything about SACS XML,
but yeah, okay, pretty interesting.
No, I don't know anything.
It doesn't, unfortunately the readme
doesn't have a lot of information about, you know,
like its performance and other things, but yeah.
They also have a blog post you can check out
about why they built it, which is kind of neat.
So also short and sweet, but check it out
if that sounds like something that would benefit you.
- That's very cool.
- Indeed.
All right, over to you, Calvin.
- Well, something else that could benefit you
is gonna be myPy is official 1.0 released.
I think this was as of about a week and a half ago.
So it's pretty new news, a ton of stuff here.
So for those who don't know,
mypy is the static type checker for Python,
basically a Python linter on steroids.
So if you are using type hints,
this is gonna be a great way for you
to make sure your code is basically ready to go
before it even runs.
Something a lot of developers coming to Python
from other statically or strongly typed languages
really appreciate.
And I think it's something that a lot of Python developers
are moving to, especially with like the surge
of populative languages like TypeScript,
because the IDEs are really supporting this like so well.
So you get a significant improvement
in your quality of life if you move to a tool like mypy
and start using Python and Python hints,
so type hints in Python.
There's some things to watch out for.
So as this new release rolls out,
they are changing their numbering scheme.
It used to be like 0.999.
They kept extending this 0.9 beta release window.
But it's actually now 1.0.
It is not Simver.
So do not count on minor releases not having
backward incompatibilities, although they
should be very minimal, is what they claim.
But something you may want to be aware of,
if you are upgrading this, and when you go in and pin
your mypy version, you want to be really explicit about it
because they're going to make sure they announce
those significant backward incompatibilities
in any kind of blog post in the release
before that feature releases.
So the idea--
>>Just say it has a gut feel-ver.
>>Yeah, yeah, right.
>>So you can answer, what's the official term?
Yeah, it feels like a big release.
Let's go ahead and change this part of the version.
>>But on that same note, they do have feature flags for this.
So if there is a new big feature coming
that is going to be a backward incompatible feature,
The previous release notes will note it, the release will have it,
there'll be a flag to turn it on, so you can try it out easily
in your workflow, see what breaks without having to downgrade,
re-upgrade, downgrade, re-upgrade, so you can turn it on and off
and make sure it works inside your workflow and your process.
Lots of performance improvements, so 1.0 is 40% faster than 0.991.
There's about 20 optimizations in this list,
and you can see by my scroll bar, there's a ton of stuff that happened
when they went to release 1.0.
But some more things in here that are nice features,
for example, warning about variables before definition
kind of goes along with this possibly undefined variables.
So for example, if B's never true, X never happens,
you'll never be able to print X. mypy will tell you about that
before you ever run your code.
So it's kind of like just a lot of those belts and suspenders,
nice safety checks.
Keep your code nice and clean.
Combine this with tools like Black and things
like that to just have super tight code that
is easy to read for everybody.
Some new features that are supported as of Python 3.11,
the new self type is supported.
So if you are having a method that
returns an instance of the class,
you can use the self type so that if you have a subclass,
you get the correct subclass return instead
of having to explicitly redefine that for every subclass you
are doing.
So more convenience methods for those
or diving deep into the typing system here.
- The self type is so good.
- Yeah, it's really, it cleans up a lot of problems.
- It was really janky to, you know,
if you're inside the class, you put in quotes,
the name of the class, well, how's it supposed to find?
- Right.
- You know, that one,
or if it's gonna create a circular dependency,
you've got to do weird things.
So yeah, that's really, really nice.
I do wish that Python had like a two stage parser aspect
where it would say, go through,
here's all the stuff that's defined in the class.
Oh, here's some type things and other reference.
We might not know what that is.
Let's go all through and then go back again
and see if we can figure out what that is, you know.
But the way it works now is
when you're in the middle of a class,
that class doesn't exist yet
because it's not done defining it till the end.
But if you gotta say,
I'm gonna compare this against another one of me,
well, how do you say that in types?
Self.
- Right.
- That's what we got.
- And I can see this like being rolled in
to proper Python, it seems like at some point.
'Cause I just feel like types went on
from being this pie in the sky idea
to a bolted on type feature to,
it's really getting ironed out
and really well supported by the community
and really well supported by all the editors.
There's some new params back stuff in here
that I don't know too much about params to backs.
That I've not, we're not heavy into types yet.
We're doing a lot with Django and doing some type ends there
to start making some APIs.
but that's where we're still diving in.
A bunch of new miscellaneous features.
So if you are looking for features galore
that has happened in mypy 1.0,
there's a bunch of fixes to crashes.
So this seems like it's a really robust release.
Another important one here is gonna be
the Python 3.10 match statement support.
So it can compile those as well.
So they're staying on top of all
the recent language features,
which is obviously what's needed to get momentum
behind a project like this.
I think anybody who's using TypeHint's better
of using the mypy stuff.
For those who don't know, it's also supported by Dropbox.
So when I said 40%, or no, yeah, the 40% faster,
that was actually running against the Dropbox main code base.
So they're actually, that's the benchmark
against Dropbox itself.
- Interesting.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, mypyc is pretty, an interesting thing
that opens up once you started to adopt types.
For me, the main reason I use types in my world,
and I realize that I live in a different world
than a lot of folks, but for me,
it's really about making the editor tell me
what it should know already and not,
do I need to go look in that method?
Does this actually take, when it says user ID,
is that a string or is that a BSON from MongoDB?
I can't remember what kind of thing this stores
for this date it says, you know?
And then, oh, okay, that's obvious, right?
just so you don't have to keep bouncing around.
You just stay in the way you're trying to focus.
And I love it.
- Yeah, it's extra smart.
I mean, you thought if you're using a PyCharm or VS Code
and you thought it was smart before,
once you introduce these types in there,
it gets even smarter.
- Absolutely.
All right, awesome.
Awesome one.
Now, two pieces of real-time feedback.
One, I found out with the untangle
that if you have multiple nodes of the same thing,
like you would in an RSS feed,
you have multiple posts or a blog post,
same thing for the post.
You just still say root.mainthing.child
or whatever the name of that node is,
that becomes a list instead of a single thing
if there's more than one.
Okay, so that's pretty interesting.
And then the other one here is over to you, Brian.
Jeff asked, can an old project be converted
to work with Flit?
And yes, probably, maybe.
It really depends on the project.
- Some of it can be re,
there's not that much to it, right?
There's a pyproject.toml and a few other things
and it's probably not that much work to migrate it, I guess.
- Yeah, but I mean, an old,
I'm assuming by old project,
it's a set of two, an old set of .py set of tools project
and you could do anything in that.
So if you were going crazy,
You can't go crazy anymore.
But if it was a fairly simple, straightforward,
then yeah, probably.
- If you were going crazy, you get what you deserve.
How about that?
(laughing)
So, all right, before we move on to our next topic,
let me tell you about our sponsor for this week,
Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub.
Really great program.
If you have a startup and you wanna get tons of support,
not just technical support, but also networking
with people who have founded their own startups,
then you should check out
Microsoft for Startup Founders Hub.
As Brian mentioned last time,
we heard back from one of our listeners who signed up
and had done several startups and said,
"I was a little skeptical,
but this is a really great program.
It's fantastic for us.
And I just wanted to let you know how well it's working out."
So definitely a good program.
People should check it out.
So what it is, is Microsoft created this program
to help people become successful starting a business.
By some estimates, 90% of startups go out of business
within the first year.
That's not what you want for your startup.
You want it to succeed.
So with Microsoft for Startup Founders Hub,
you get access to free resources.
So this includes platform technologies like Azure, GitHub,
they partner with OpenAI.
I've heard chat GTP is catching on, so that's kind of cool.
So you get access to some of the resources from them,
which is fantastic,
but you also get access to the mentorship network,
which I think maybe is even the most important part.
You get access to a pool of hundreds of mentors
across ranges of disciplines,
across areas like idea validation, fundraising,
management and coaching, sales and marketing, and others.
So you can go and book one-on-one meetings
with these folks,
and many of them are former founders themselves.
So you can make your idea reality today
with the critical support you get from Microsoft
for Startups Founders Hub.
Just visit pythonbytes.fm/foundershub2022
to go apply, the links in your show notes.
You don't have to be VC backed.
You don't have to be third-party validated.
You just apply.
If they like what you want, it's free
and they'll take you under the program and you can get started.
So thank you to Microsoft for supporting our show
And with that, Brian, over to you.
- Yeah, so go back to the same article for a second.
- Just scroll a little further down the same page.
I got it.
- So in within the same packaging Python projects thing,
there was, I have a reason to bring this up,
but anyway, it lists a whole bunch of tools you can use
to for your back, build a backend.
It's got PDM, flit, set up tools and hatchling.
There's another page on the same, in PyPI or PyPA,
that is the packaging flow.
And this one talks about it as a more of a high level.
It's not a tutorial, talks about the high level thing.
And there, it lists all of those,
flit, hatch, PDM, poetry, subtools,
and then also trampoline and way, which I've not heard of.
So this can cause confusion.
And that's really what we're talking about,
is I have, and I'm bringing this up
because just independent of my involvement
with Python bytes, I've been involved
with people having trouble figuring out
how to package their Python code independently.
I got a web developer doing it, a tools backend person,
and then somebody that's just trying,
he's a C# person that just was trying to package
a front end to his tool, a Python front end.
And he was like, "I don't know how to do all this."
And it is confusing.
And it even is confusing for seasoned Python developers.
And here we've got, oh, I didn't link it right now,
but there was a Doug Hellman from module of the week
posted that he's published lots of packages
and he went to do it again and was a little lost
and wanted some advice.
So new people or people that are outside of the scope
are confused.
And I think it's fair to recognize that.
And so there's a lot of discussion around it.
And Pradyon put together a blog post,
was talking about it on Disqus.
And he put together an article called
"Thoughts on the Python Packaging Ecosystem."
And I think it's a kind of a fair discussion around it.
And one of the points is that a lot of Python users
are not software engineers.
But we also have to recognize that a lot are.
So it's a diverse ecosystem.
And I think it's going to be a mess.
It's going to be a mess for a while.
And I think it's going to be--
I think it's good that it's a mess in some cases.
It's good that we don't just have setup tools now.
We have a lot of ways that are working
on different pieces of the problem of, you know,
how to make it easier around PyProject.toml,
and you're gonna have a different build backend.
But he breaks down the points.
It's a big article, but one of the things is
it kind of unintentionally, the packaging ecosystem
unintentionally became a competitive space
that it is today.
And maybe we need to make,
the community needs to make an explicit decision
if we should continue operating under that model
that led to what we have now.
We could pick from in different tools
to do in different things.
That's a good model according to this,
or in approximately the same choices
to get a really bad user experience,
bad for some people, good for others.
And then also maybe we should pick a default
because picking a default doesn't make
the other approaches illegal, they just aren't the default.
And I'm kind of leaning towards that.
I think it would be good to have something,
but I'm not sure what.
Down, longer down the line,
pardon me, of the scroll is PIP.
One of the ideas is maybe we should have PIP.
Well, okay, I'll back up a little bit.
Some of these tools like Poetry and PDM are workflow tools
And other tools like Flit are more build.
Flit's more like, I wanna build, just build a wheel.
It also does publish, but mostly the workload
is around building the wheel.
Whereas PDM and Poetry are like this whole workflow thing,
control your virtual environment, do a whole bunch of stuff.
And I know a lot of people from other languages
like JavaScript and other, maybe Go, I don't know,
are used to these high-end workflow things
that do everything for you.
But we're already used to a multi-tool model now,
so I'm not sure how to get from here to there.
Interesting, it would be interesting to have pip do it.
I mean, we already all use Pip,
so could pip expand to do both the focus thing
it's doing now, installing a package,
and then also do some workflow stuff?
And I guess I'd be kind of open to explore that idea,
but I was curious what you guys thought.
- I'd be open to explore it.
I, not to disparage anything,
but I personally dislike the things
that try to put their workflow onto you.
I'd much rather have something simpler.
And as someone who teaches Python,
this is a huge problem for people getting into language.
They feel like it's a big challenge.
Why is it so hard?
Why do I have to learn all these things?
I picked the wrong thing and now am I screwed?
No, you're not out of luck.
You just delete your virtual environment
start over, but yes, things are a little, I think, I think having
many of them, one is a problem. Yeah. And I think something that
have forces workflows on you. I'm not a huge fan of, I feel
like we've already got lots of tools that solve it pretty well.
I'm kind of not against pip doing a little bit more I use
pip-tools for managing my dependencies. And it is so good.
It is so good.
You state just your top-level dependencies,
and when it's time to, "Let's see what new,
let's make sure we upgrade to the new things,"
you just run pip-tools upgrade, and it'll regenerate.
You can evaluate what the changes are.
I really, really like pip-tools.
I think it's a much simpler scenario than a lot of--
And I know other people really like them,
but anyway, this is what I like.
We could possibly leave pip alone and expand pip-tools
to do the rest of the workflow stuff.
Yes, potentially.
Yeah, it could, but I kind of agree with that Unix small tools
do one thing really well, which is
why I've kind of gone with the pip-tools approach as well.
Because I really feel like pip-tools does such
an incredible job at that dependency resolution
and getting you exactly what you need,
way better and way faster than pip itself does.
I think that approach that Flit takes, it seems like--
I've never used Flit--
but the fact that it can just wrap around preexisting tools
to provide a common interface for users
to be able to build, package, push the whole deal
seems really nice because it guides them
through step by step that process until maybe at some
point they don't need it or they just enjoy it
and it's using some of the standard tools behind the scenes.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm also with Michael.
I don't like the predefined workflows.
I'm not a huge fan of poetry necessarily
because it just doesn't fit the way my brain wants
to work down a project.
>> And I'm not surprised.
So I was thinking an analogy of like,
if you're gonna have a pocket knife,
which tools should be in the pocket knife?
And if you go into like the medium pocket knives
on the Victoria Knox site, oh no, it won't load.
You get like even the small ones.
So the medium ones, you get like tons of different tools,
which tools should be there?
Nobody's gonna agree.
And I thought, well, at least in the small ones,
maybe people can agree 'cause, oh no,
not even in the small ones, people can't agree.
which should go together, so yeah.
- I want my Swiss Army knife to also have drywall tools
and something for my car.
(laughing)
- But it seems like the combination though
of really small tools that do one thing really well
with some tools to layer on top of it,
whether it's your IDE, whether it's Flit,
and they can have the opinionated workflows
layered on top of this.
They rest on top of a solid set of identical tools
that produce the identical thing.
- Yeah.
I'm in that camp as well, that's where,
but I totally get that that's confusing for people.
- Oh, totally confusing.
The first time I go to explain to someone
how they're going to manage their dependencies
on a Django project, I'm like, oh my gosh,
I had to step back and think about the 20 steps
that kind of go into how I learned to do this
that I'm now explaining to some new person.
I'm like, I'm sorry, this doesn't sound easy at all.
There's gotta be a better way, but I don't know if there is.
- Yeah, anyway, okay.
Rabbit hole, but.
- Oh, totally.
I mean, Python packaging is the ultimate rabbit hole
in the Python community.
- Yeah.
- Speaking of packages,
Michael, do you wanna jump into yours?
- I do wanna talk about more packages.
This is the simplified version,
but also a bit of real-time follow-up as well.
Again, I'm having many of the folks that were on that
discuss thread that you mentioned Brian about this topic
on Talk Python probably in a couple of weeks
as a big panel discussion about it.
So if you all want to hear more of this,
but for a long time with the folks who are participating
and dive on in.
Okay.
Oh, also apparently I said chat GTP
rather than I meant ChatGPT as Sharaf pointed out.
So thanks for that.
That's the one I meant, you know the one.
All right, so there's this cool GitHub page, I guess,
called top PyPI packages.
And so this is a pretty neat place.
It shows you the top 5,000 most downloaded
PyPI packages updated monthly.
So you can scroll down here and you can say,
show me the top 100, show me the top 1,000, whatever.
I'll pull up the 1,000 for you, Brian.
There you go.
So these are updated over the last 30 days
And it actually says when it was last updated
and that was February 1st,
which is a week ago as of this recording.
So that's pretty fresh really.
And so you can find things like pytest-check.
Is that in here somewhere, Brian?
- It's in the top 5,000, but not the top 1,000.
- Oh, okay. Did I do the wrong one?
Sorry, I tried to pull you up there.
But you see things like Boto3 and URLlib
are the most popular.
So Boto3 is downloaded 522 million times every month,
every 30 days or so, which is just insane.
You gotta be careful because some of these
are really popular dependencies
rather than directly really important libraries.
Like I use Boto3 all the time as a dependency,
less often directly, definitely for YOLO lib3,
I don't think I've ever used it directly,
but obviously it gets installed, but I'm gonna use many things.
So this is pretty cool if people wanna check it out.
Calvin, what do you think?
- Oh, I'm excited about this too,
'cause it's just thinking about the number of times
the Amazon cloud must go download photo three
from like Wi-Fi, mind blowing.
Like does all the serverless that's on server someplace
downloading packages in the background.
Now you get a feel for it with a big number.
- Yeah, it's really nuts,
which is also a little bit ironic
'cause it comes from AWS and they sent it over to IPI
and then it comes back to AWS.
It's a weird,
a weird golden world. - They use Fastly,
don't they use Fastly for their CDN?
I think they use Fastly.
- PyPI? - Yeah.
- I believe so.
- Yeah, so it's like,
they have to go to a competitor to get like,
yes, exactly.
- Yeah, how interesting.
So this is interesting in and of itself,
and it tells you which ones are there.
And there's an API, which you can hit,
let's not hit the minified one,
let's hit the non-minified one.
And it'll tell you actually returns
when it was updated, what the query was, et cetera, et cetera.
And so you actually can get this as a JSON endpoint,
which is pretty cool.
It's just a static file that gets updated, you know,
every couple of days on this GitHub page setup.
So that's also an interesting way to think of an API.
My API is a static file that periodically gets refreshed,
but there it is.
So you don't think you'll hear much there.
- I kind of love it though.
It's just a- - I kind of do too.
- Just a static file. - Builds with cache.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, think how scalable that bad boy is.
Okay, especially if you put a CDN behind it.
And then related to that by the same person,
there is HugoVic top PyPI packages on GitHub,
which is a regular dump of the most downloaded packages
from PyPI.
So that sounds like, yeah, Michael,
you told us about that, thanks a bunch.
No, it's not the names, it's all of it.
It's all of the data that is here.
Where do they have it?
This one, I don't know if I want to open this up,
but it's really big.
So it's all the XML.
I'm not sure where it is in here,
but it's all the XML files of,
or rather XML, the JSON files,
that untangle got me thinking XML.
So it's all the JSON files of what comes out
of the PyPI API, but all of them.
It's when I checked it out and unzipped it
and it was like 22 gigs on disk.
So this is a big beast right here if you download it.
Actually, no, this is not the right link.
I'll have to find it.
I'll put it in the show notes, but there's this guy.
Darn it, this is the wrong one.
But there's also linked off of this.
There's one where you get all of the packages,
which is all the JSON for every package.
I'll have to figure out where I got that from.
Unfortunately, it's the wrong link I pulled up.
But anyway, these are both really cool resources
and you'll have to check the links for that other one.
- Cool. - Definitely.
- Yeah, all right.
- Cowbell.
- Coming in at 57 on that list for the last 30 days
is SQL Alchemist.
So for those of you who aren't familiar
and do like Swiss Army Knives,
this is the Swiss Army Knife of database tools.
It's not only an ORM,
but it has a whole SQL toolkit built into it.
So if you've never touched SQLAlchemy, but deal with databases,
you may want to check this out.
And more importantly, and this kind of ties in with my previous announcement
on the mypy 1.0 release,
there's a lot more support in this release for types and typing.
So there's kind of native out-of-the-box mypy experience has been improved.
Now, the author of SQLAlchemy, Mike Bayer,
is actually going to be joining us in a few weeks here at Python Web Conference
in giving a tutorial-length session on SQLAlchemy.
He did this last time two years ago when he released 1.4.
For those of you who have been following along in the background,
the 1.4 release was the first half
of this major revamp of SQLAlchemy into this new world.
And so 2.0 is the second half of that revamp.
So it's really been four years coming
for this major release of SQLAlchemy.
So if you want to know what's new and hear it from the horse's mouth,
Mike Bear is going to be joining us,
and he'll be happy to answer all of your questions.
Let's see, there's a ton of new things released in here.
I think if I scroll down...
Yeah, so plugin-free,
PEP484-compatible ORM syntaxes,
so again, ripping out the old stuff.
All the typing support in here is all fresh.
If you are using the mypy plugins from before,
you're going to want to take all those out.
they're considered deprecated at this point.
So that's something that's very important for you to consider.
But now SQLAlchemy 2.0 is using all the new Python 3
wonderfulness of data classes, enums, inline annotations.
It's just really a nice modernization of a really powerful package.
Let's see what else is in here.
There was a super important-- Oh, yeah, some performance stuff.
So this all-new fully integrated ORM approach to bulk inserts
is quite interesting.
a major speed increase except if you're using MySQL.
The MySQL folks have not implemented the insert returning syntax,
but if you're on MariaDB, you're good to go.
So that's something to pay attention to.
In addition to that performance,
there's also the bulk optimized schema reflection.
So if you were using SQLAlchemy,
it was basically doing a table by table reflection.
If you were asking it for metadata about the tables.
Now in all of the backends, there is basically a--
oh, sorry, I think it's only for Postgres and Oracle right now.
So Postgres and Oracle support the bulk schema upgrades.
You can see right here for Postgres, a 250% improvement,
and for Oracle, a 900% improvement.
I'm not sure what it was doing before,
but it's a heck of a lot faster now at 900% improvement.
Always a benefit there.
And in addition, I'll point out some other things
that were in the migration guide and the what's new in 2.0 guide,
you're going to want to make sure you check those out here.
There's like the migration process link from this article or blog post.
You're going to want to make sure you read through those
because there's major incompatibilities from 1.4 into 2.0.
But the migration guide is really similar to like the 2.3 guide Python had,
tells you how to mechanically go through and make sure
that you're going to be compatible for the latest version of SQLAlchemy.
Another speed improvement here is that all the native C extensions
have been ported to Cython.
Some of them are all as fast, some of them are slightly faster
than their previous C extensions,
but this also removes risks of memory corruption
and stomping on each other and things that C does really well
that you don't want, so that's also a nice benefit.
And then the tying into that same benefit
is the SQLAlchemy is now PEP 517 enabled,
So that means the PyProject.toml file that we just saw
in the last couple of announcements is supported,
which means when you're on your local machine
and doing a source build of SQLAlchemy,
it can automatically go grab some of the dependencies
such as Cython, which can be tricky
to get installed for some people.
So that is simplifying a lot of people's lives
to go to SQLAlchemy 2.0.
- Yeah, SQLAlchemy 2.0 is a huge release.
- Yeah, it's a big deal.
- It's been years.
- It's been years in the coming
and it was in this intermediate 1.4 mode
where you could choose either API
and they finally removed some things.
But to me, the biggest deal is the async.
- Yeah.
- Right, it's in the prior versions,
there was just no way to do any async things,
which meant on all the scalable areas,
you were kind of stuck trying to find somewhere else to go.
Now, if you really like SIGWALK me,
you can just use the async API.
(indistinct)
- Yeah, I think a lot of people
are gonna benefit from those types,
all the type support in mypy native support.
- Yeah, absolutely.
- Thank you, editor.
- The bulk inserts have always been a hassle in ORMs.
So it sounds like that's really gotten a lot of love too.
- Yeah, definitely.
I look forward to it.
- I do as well.
All right.
Well, that's all of our topics.
Brian, what do you got for us as an extra?
- I guess just one quick extra is like,
one of the things I've been working on the side
is I'm gonna build a,
I'm gonna create a new build backend for Python
and a new workflow tool.
No, I'm not.
- But what will you name it?
- Well, I think Flick,
because I always thought Flit should have been Flick.
So like a little football.
So yeah.
- There you go.
So how about let's go to Calvin's extras?
- Yeah, sure.
So I kind of mentioned this in the intro,
but we are putting on the Python MUB Conference.
And this will be our fifth annual.
So big five years.
I'm wearing one of the jerseys from last year.
You can't see it, but it was a really awesome last year.
We had 90 speakers.
We had, I think it was over 400 attendees,
something like 23 or 22 time zones.
Like it was really a global event.
That's one of the things I'm really proud of.
This event was meant to fill a hole,
I felt like, in the Python community
for folks who couldn't travel,
couldn't afford to go to an in-person conference,
or wasn't a regional conference near them.
I know PSF's doing a lot of work right now
in getting some regional conferences into other areas,
but this is still, and will always be virtual,
and always be accessible to folks.
So if you go and register
and you can't afford to pay for this,
we do have a grant program.
We wanna make sure that if you have a need
to be in this room, you should be in this room,
and everyone is included.
This year is going to be no exception.
There's a lot of amazing speakers who have joined us.
It'll be five half days from the 13th to the 17th.
There'll be a keynote speaker kick off every day,
a keynote speaker at the end of every day,
and there's some awesome speakers coming up.
We've got some people from GitLab.
We've been focusing on finding some folks from Climate
Initiatives to actually come and give some of our talks
where they're using technology for good in these areas.
There'll be a set of tutorials as well.
I mentioned Mike Bair's tutorial already,
but there'll be three or four other tutorials as well.
I know Matt Harrison's going to be giving one of the tutorials--
not tutorial, he'll be giving a keynote this year.
So he's back again from last year.
He gave a keynote and a tutorial.
Man's the hardest working man in Python,
but we really appreciate him joining us as well.
If you've got questions, make sure you just go to pythonwebconf.com.
You can also find me on @CalvinHP on Twitter.
There's also a Twitter account for Python webconf.
So you can follow Python webconf on all the socials and join us.
There'll be socials actually during the event as well.
So it should be tons of fun.
We'll have just everything for the community.
So I have a question right off the bat.
It says webconf.
If I'm not a web developer, am I still
going to be interested in this?
Or is it primarily web development?
That's an excellent question, Brian.
We originally-- the webconf name meant a conference
for web people.
But we switched it around because we
felt like this was an opportunity for the conference
for Python to be on the web.
And now we have AppDevTrack, which
is more than just web.
We'll have a CloudTrack.
We will have a PyDataTrack.
It's actually an officially sanctioned PyData event.
And we have a CultureTrack in addition to the tutorial.
So there is actually something for everybody in the Python
world here.
We're really trying to-- again, I
I mentioned filling the gap for people who can't make it
to specific conferences.
We're also trying to fill the gap for talks
that I feel are a little more on the intermediate
to advanced level.
If you're looking for very entry-level tutorials,
this may not be the conference for you.
I mean, there'll be great community,
lots of questions you can ask, and there'll be tutorials,
but I really wanted to make sure that the talks
kind of scaled up that next notch.
When I go to a lot of regional conferences or even PyCon,
There's some entry level stuff there
that's great for people who are new to Python.
This is that next step.
- Cool.
Don't need to cut you off,
but can we see if Michael's got any extras?
- Yeah.
- I do.
One while Calvin's thing is up,
I'm gonna be speaking at their conference
about making your Python web apps fly with CDNs.
Speaking of CDNs earlier,
so I'm really excited about that one.
That's a fun topic.
But I wanna tell you a couple of tips and tricks.
I'll keep these short here,
but they're kind of fun.
So I recently discovered that with many of the browsers,
like Vivaldi or Chrome, sadly not Firefox,
honestly, that's one of the reasons
I quit using Firefox.
They support progressive web apps,
which many people may know.
But even if you have a thing
that is not a progressive web app,
you can install it as a standalone,
from your perspective, application that lives in the docs.
So the thing I got on my screen
and I link to in the show notes is here's my Vivaldi,
but then I have my different mail clients.
I got ProtonMail and Gmail,
and I got the Google Calendar.
All of those are just regular web apps.
I don't think any of them are progressive web apps,
but if you right click on the tab,
you say create shortcut and say open in a window,
they become their own little app
that you have put in your dock or your taskbar or whatever.
So for example, like here's ProtonMail running.
You can see again, link in the show notes to the picture.
And it just looks like an app,
like you would know it was an app.
It does, you'd think it was an electron JS app basically.
But so if you want to have those as separate things,
you're gonna run in and alt tab or control tab over to,
there you go.
It's like, oh no, I closed my browser
and my mail's gone again.
I got to open it back up, right?
If that ever frustrates you, here's a cool fix for it.
All right.
Also speaking of Proton, I started using simple login.
Have either of you all used this?
- No. - No.
- So I have a pro account at Proton, which is like,
I don't know, a couple of dollars a month
for a bunch of years, if you pay like way in advance,
I think it's not very much.
But along with that comes a single simple log on,
which every time you go to a website,
I don't think I have the extension
in this profile on my browser,
but if you go to a website, it suggests,
hey, we'll create an automatic fake one-off email address
that gets sent to wherever you decide to get sent to,
and you can reply to it and it goes back through there
and things like that, it's really cool.
So like if I went to ars-technica.com and I created
it would be like some random thing
at ars-technica-simple-logon-ish.io or whatever.
So you kind of know where it comes from,
but if you want to just delete that and make it mailstop
or you can figure out if it's sold or whatever.
So anyway, recommendation on checking that as well.
It's also open source.
You can host it yourself if you like hosting email.
I don't really feel like doing that.
If you've heard about, a new topic,
if you've heard about all the crazy stuff with chips,
the Chips Act in the US, similar stuff in Europe.
If you've heard about Biden banning chips
or the US government banning chips
to be used in certain things, primarily in China,
but there's a bunch of angles
in which this kind of stuff is heating up,
not just with the US, but primarily around the US.
There's an incredibly good documentary
on YouTube called "US vs. China, The War You Can't See"
that talks about the history of this.
And it just reminds me of how much good stuff
there is on YouTube.
I mean, I know there's a lot of stupid cats
falling off of chairs and like idiots,
but hidden in there, there were some,
this is a better documentary than you would find
on professional top tier television networks.
It's really good.
So anyway, if that's interesting to you.
- I will second that documentary note.
I have a 15 year old here
who's obsessed with long form YouTube.
And some of the things he has shown me
it just blow my mind.
Like why the super conducting super collider
didn't succeed eight hours of like documentary on that.
I was like, what?
- Yeah, there is no more discovery channel.
There's no more history channel.
I know they exist in name, but not in what they were,
where they actually have real science and real information.
They're just reality TV and other silly stuff.
So, all right.
I know we'll get short on time, Brian, so I'll go quick.
Talk Python's hiring.
So I'm looking to hire somebody that does Flutter and Dart,
not Python, 'cause if it's Python, I'd be doing it myself.
But if you're out there and you have experience
with publishing apps and Flutter apps in particular
to the various app stores.
If you're used to working on like Android and iOS
and others with Flutter,
and you can show me an app in that store,
I would love to work with you.
I'm gonna post this somewhere pretty soon,
but I wanna put it out to the community first
'cause I'd rather hire somebody from our community
than just some random person off the internet.
And it's primarily to do a complete rework
of our mobile apps for Talk Python Training.
So that'll be a lot of fun if people are interested,
just email me, michael@talkpython.fm.
That's it. Those are all my extras. Yeah.
Nice.
Calvin, thanks for being here.
Thanks for having me. I really enjoy it. It's lots of fun. I get to go learn new things each time I come.
Yeah, we do every time we show up as well. It's a lot of fun.
Yep.
Alright. And Brian, thanks as always.
Thank you.
Bye, everyone.
Bye.
[BLANK_AUDIO]